.TH "FI_EC" 3 "2014-02-08" "libfabric" "Libfabric Programmer's Manual" libfabric
.SH NAME
fi_ec \- Event collector operations
.PP
fi_ec_open / fi_ec_close
.RS
Open/close an event collector
.RE
.PP
fi_ec_read / fi_ec_readfrom / fi_ec_readerr
.RS
Reads an event from an event collector
.RE
.PP
fi_ec_write
.RS
Writes an event to an event collector
.RE
.PP
fi_ec_condread / fi_ec_condreadfrom
.RS
Waits until the specified condition has been met before reading an event
from an event collector.
.RE
.PP
fi_ec_strerror
.RS
Converts provider specific error information into a printable string
.RE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <rdma/fi_domain.h>
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_open(fid_t " fid ", struct fi_ec_attr *" attr ", fid_t *" ec ","
.BI "void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_close(fid_t " ec ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_control(fid_t " ec ", int " command ", void *" arg ");"
.PP
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_read(fid_t " ec ","
.BI "void *" buf ", size_t " len ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_readfrom(fid_t " ec ","
.BI "void *" buf ", size_t " len ", "
.BI "void *" src_addr ", size_t *" addrlen ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_readerr(fid_t " ec ","
.BI "struct fi_ec_err_entry *" buf ", size_t " len ", "
.BI "uint64_t " flags ");"
.PP
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_write(fid_t " ec ","
.BI "const void *" buf ", size_t " len ");"
.PP
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_reset(fid_t " ec ", const void *" cond ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_condread(fid_t " ec ","
.BI "void *" buf ", size_t " len ", "
.BI "const void *" cond ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_ec_condreadfrom(fid_t " ec ","
.BI "void *" buf ", size_t " len ","
.BI "void *" src_addr ", size_t *" addrlen ", const void *" cond ");"
.PP
.HP
.BI "const char * fi_ec_strerror(fid_t " ec ", int " prov_errno ", "
.BI "const void *" prov_data ", void *" buf ", size_t" len ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "fid"
Event collector 
.IP "attr"
Event collector attributes
.IP "context"
User specified context associated with the event collector.
.IP "buf"
For read calls, the data buffer to write events into.
.br
For write calls, an event to insert into the event collector.
.br
For fi_ec_strerror, an optional buffer that receives printable error information.
.IP "len"
Length of data buffer
.IP "src_addr"
Source address of a completed receive operation
.IP "addrlen"
Size of source address buffer
.IP "flags"
Additional flags to apply to the operation
.IP "cond"
Condition that must be met before an event is generated
.IP "prov_errno"
Provider specific error value
.IP "prov_data"
Provider specific data related to a completion
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS "fi_ec_open"
fi_ec_open allocates a new event collector.  The properties and behavior of
the event collector are defined by struct fi_ec_attr.
.PP
.nf
struct fi_ec_attr {
	int                  mask;      /* valid attr fields */
	enum fi_ec_domain    domain;    /* events reported by EC */
	enum fi_ec_type      type;      /* type of EC */
	enum fi_ec_format    format;    /* event format */
	enum fi_ec_wait_obj  wait_obj;  /* requested wait object */
	enum fi_ec_wait_cond wait_cond; /* wait condition format */
	size_t               size;      /* # entries for EC */
	int                  signaling_vector; /* interrupt affinity */
	uint64_t             flags;     /* operation flags */
	void                *cond;      /* wait condition */
};
.fi
.IP "mask"
The mask field is used for forward and backward API compatibility.  It is
used by the application to indicate which fields in the attribute structure
have been set.  For this version of the API, mask should be set to
FI_EC_ATTR_MASK_V1, indicating that all specified fields have been initialized.
.IP "domain"
An EC domain indicates the type of events which are to be reported through
the event collector.  Valid values are:
.RS
.IP "FI_EC_DOMAIN_GENERAL"
The EC is used to report asynchronous events affiliated with a fabric
or access domain.
.IP "FI_EC_DOMAIN_COMP"
The EC is used to report asynchronous completions of data transfers.
.IP "FI_EC_DOMAIN_CM"
The EC will be used to report connection management events.
.IP "FI_EC_DOMAIN_AV"
The EC will report asynchronous operations associated with address vectors.
.RE
.IP "type"
Indicates the generic mechanism that the EC will report events.
.RS
.IP "FI_EC_QUEUE"
As events are reported to the EC, they will be placed into a queue.  The user
will be able to read out queued events.  Event queues are useful for
applications that require details on a completion or event.
.IP "FI_EC_COUNTER"
Counter EC's only maintain a count of the number of events that occur.  Full
or partial event data is not maintained.  Event counters are useful for
applications that only need to maintain how many completions or events
have occurred, rather than details about the event itself.  This can be
useful for tracking the number of available resources.
.RE
.IP "format"
Event queues allow the application to select the amount of detail that it
must store and report.  The format attribute allows the application to
select one of several event formats, indicating the structure of the data
that the event queue should return when read.  Supported formats and the
structures that correspond to each are listed below.
.RS
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_UNSPEC"
If an unspecified format is requested, then the EC will use the default
format associated with the EC based on the selected domain and type.
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_CONTEXT"
Provides only user specified context that was associated with the event.
.nf

struct fi_ec_entry {
	void *op_context; /* operation context */
};
.fi
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_COMP"
Provides minimal data for processing completions.
.nf

struct fi_ec_comp_entry {
	void    *op_context; /* operation context */
	uint64_t flags;      /* completion flags */
	size_t   len;        /* size of received data */
};
.fi
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_DATA"
Provides data associated with a completion.
.nf

struct fi_ec_data_entry {
	void    *op_context; /* operation context */
	void    *buf;        /* receive data buffer */
	uint64_t flags;      /* completion flags */
	size_t   len;        /* size of received data */
	uint64_t data;       /* completion data */
};
.fi
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_TAGGED"
Reports completion data when using fi_tagged operations.
.nf

struct fi_ec_tagged_entry {
	void    *op_context; /* operation context */
	void    *buf;        /* receive data buffer */
	uint64_t flags;      /* completion flags */
	size_t   len;        /* size of received data */
	uint64_t data;       /* completion data */
	uint64_t tag;        /* received tag */
	size_t   olen;       /* overflow length */
};
.fi
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_ERR"
Reports minimal information on an operation which complete successfully,
and detailed information in the case of errors.
.nf

struct fi_ec_err_entry {
	void    *op_context;  /* operation context */
	union {
		void *fid_context;/* endpoint context */
		void *buf;        /* receive data buffer */
	};
	uint64_t flags;       /* completion flags */
	size_t   len;         /* size of received data */
	uint64_t data;        /* completion data */
	int      err;         /* error code */
	int      prov_errno;  /* provider error code */
	void    *prov_data;   /* provider error data */
};

.fi
The general reason for the error is provided through the err field.  Provider
specific error information may also be available through the prov_errno
and prov_data fields.  Users may call fi_ec_strerror to convert provider
specific error information into a printable string for debugging purposes.
.sp
For successful completions, only the op_context field is valid.
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_COMP_ERR"
Reports minimal data for processing completions for operations which complete
successfully and detailed information in the case of errors.  This format uses
struct fi_ec_err_entry.  For successful completions, the op_context, flags,
and len fields are valid. 
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_DATA_ERR"
Reports data for processing completions for operations which complete
successfully and detailed information in the case of errors.  This format uses
struct fi_ec_err_entry.  For successful completions, the op_context, buf, flags,
len, and data fields are valid.
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_TAGGED_ERR"
Reports completion data for successful fi_tagged operations and detailed
information in the case of errors.
.nf

struct fi_ec_tagged_err_entry {
	int      status;                      /* result of operation */
	union {
		struct fi_ec_tagged_entry tagged; /* success data */
		struct fi_ec_err_entry    err;    /* error data */
	};
};

.fi
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_COUNTER"
Provides a count of successful events that occur on the EC.
.nf

struct fi_ec_counter_entry {
	uint64_t events;  /* number of successful events */
};

.fi
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_COUNTER_ERR"
Provides a count of successful and error events that occur on the EC.
.nf

struct fi_ec_counter_err_entry {
	uint64_t events;  /* number of successful events */
	uint64_t errors;  /* number of error events */
};

.fi
.IP "FI_EC_FORMAT_CM"
Provides information on connection management.
.nf

struct fi_ec_cm_entry {
	void            *fid_context; /* endpoint context */
	uint64_t         flags;       /* connection flags */
	enum fi_cm_event event;       /* CM event */
	struct fi_info *info;         /* endpoint info */
	uint8_t         data[0];      /* user data */
};

.fi
Available CM events are FI_CONNREQ, FI_CONNECTED, FI_SHUTDOWN.  For
FI_CONNREQ, the info field will provide additional details on the request.
Users must call fi_freeinfo on info to release the structure.
.sp
If the underlying connection protocol supports exchanging user data as
part of the connection establish, the data field will contain any
available user CM data.  ECs that report CM events return a single event
per read request.
.Pzp
If an EC has been configured as a counter, then reading from the EC will
return a uint64_t that contains the current value of the counter.
.RE
.IP "wait_obj"
EC's may be associated with a specific wait object.  Wait objects allow
applications to block until the wait object is signaled, indicating that
an event is available to be read.  Users may use fi_control to retrieve
the underlying wait object associated with an EC, in order to use it in
other system calls.  The following values may be used to specify the type
of wait object associated with an EC: FI_EC_WAIT_NONE and FI_EC_WAIT_FD.
.IP "wait_cond"
By default, when an event is inserted into an EC, the corresponding wait
object, if any, is signaled.  Users may specify a condition that must
first be met before the wait is satisfied.  This field indicates how the
provider should interpret the cond field, which describes the condition
needed to signal the wait object.
.sp
If wait_cond is set to FI_EC_COND_NONE, then no additional conditions
are applied to the signaling of the EC wait object.  If wait_cond is
set to FI_EC_COND_THRESHOLD, then the cond field is interpreted as a size_t
threshold value.  The threshold indicates the number of entries that must
be added to an EC before the wait object is signaled.
.sp
This field is ignored if wait_obj is set to FI_EC_WAIT_NONE.
.IP "size"
Specifies the size of an event queue.
.IP "signaling_vector"
Indicates which processor core interrupts associated with the EC should
target.
.IP "flags"
Flags that set the default operation of the EC.
.RS
.IP "FI_AUTO_RESET"
Automatically resets the EC to signal the wait object after the EC has
been read.  Once an EC has been signaled, it does not reset until all
queued events have been read.  Once reset, the EC will trigger the wait
object when a new entry is added, unless the EC has been configured with
a wait condition.  In the latter case, the EC will be reset to signal
again once the condition has been satisfied.
.RE
.IP "cond"
Points to a datatype or structure describing a wait condition that must be
satisfied before the EC wait object is signaled.  The format of the data
referenced by the cond field is determined by the value set by the wait_cond
field.
.SS "fi_ec_close"
The fi_ec_close call releases all resources associated with an event
collector.  The EC must not be bound to any other resources prior to
being closed.  Any events which remain on the EC when it is closed are
lost.
.SS "fi_ec_control"
The fi_ec_control call is used to access provider or implementation specific
details of the event collector.  Access to the EC should be serialized
across all calls when fi_ec_control is invoked, as it may redirect the
implementation of EC operations.  The following control commands are usable
with an EC.
.IP "FI_GETOPSFLAG (uint64_t *)"
Returns the current default operational flags associated with the EC.
.IP "FI_SETOPSFLAG (uint64_t *)"
Modifies the current default operational flags associated with the EC.
Operational flags affected by fi_ec_control are: FI_AUTO_RESET.
.IP "FI_GETECWAIT (void **)"
This command allows the user to retrieve the low-level wait object
associated with the EC.  The format of the wait-object is specified during
EC creation, through the EC attributes.  The fi_ec_control arg parameter
should be an address where a pointer to the returned wait object
will be written.
.SS "fi_ec_read"
The fi_ec_read, fi_ec_readfrom, fi_ec_condread, fi_ec_condreadfrom reads
event data from the EC.  The format of the event data is based on the user
specified options when the EC was opened.  Multiple events may be retrieved
from an EC in a single call, provided that sufficient buffer space was
provided.  The number of bytes successfully read from the EC is returned
by the read call.
.PP
The readfrom calls allow the EC to return source address information to
the user for any received data.  The format and size of the source address
is a property of the associated resource domain.  See the addr_format
field of struct fi_into when calling fi_domain.  Note that returning source
address information may require that the provider perform address
translation and/or look-up in order to provide the requested data, which
may adversely affect performance.
.PP
The condread calls allow the user to specify and change the wait condition
of an EC.  Otherwise, they behave similar to the read / readfrom calls.
.PP
Reading non-error events from an EC will block if the EC has been configured
with FI_BLOCK, a wait object is associated with the EC, and the wait object
has been reset to the non-signaled state.
.PP
ECs may be optimized to report operations which have completed successfully.
If the specified format of EC is not of type ending with "ERR", then
operations which fail are reported 'out of band'.  Such operations are
retrieved using the fi_ec_readerr function.  When an operation
that completes with an unexpected error is inserted
into an EC, it is placed into a temporary error queue.  Attempting to read
from an EC while an item is in the error queue results in an FI_EAVAIL
failure.  Applications may use this return code to determine when to
call fi_ec_readerr.
.PP
If an EC has not been configured with FI_AUTORESET, once the wait object
of an EC has been signaled, it will not be signaled again until the EC
has been rearmed.  The fi_ec_reset call is used to manually rearm the EC
to signal its wait object when its wait condition has been met.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
fi_ec_open / fi_ec_reset
.RS
Returns 0 on success.  On error, a negative value corresponding to
fabric errno is returned.
.RE
.PP
fi_ec_read / fi_ec_readfrom / fi_ec_readerr
.br
fi_ec_condread / fi_ec_condreadfrom
.br
fi_ec_write
.RS
On success, returns the number of bytes read from or written to the event
collector.  On error, a negative value corresponding to fabric errno
is returned.
.RE
.PP
fi_ec_strerror
.RS
Returns a character string interpretation of the provider specific error
returned with a completion.
.RE
.PP
Fabric errno values are defined in
.IR "rdma/fi_errno.h".
.SH "NOTES"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fi_getinfo(3), fi_endpoint(3), fi_domain(3)
