.TH "FI_OPEN" 3 "2013-11-21" "libfabric" "Libfabric Programmer's Manual" libfabric
.SH NAME
fi_open / fi_close \- Open / close a fabric interface domain
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <rdma/fabric.h>"
.br
.PP
.B "int" fi_open
.BI "(char *" name ","
.BI "struct fi_info *" info ","
.BI "uint64_t " flags ","
.BI "fid_t *" fid ","
.BI "void *" context ");"
.br
.PP
.B "int" fi_close
.BI "(fid_t " fid ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "name" 12
The name of the interface to open.
.IP "info" 12
Fabric information obtained from 
.BR fi_getinfo "."
.IP "flags" 12
Optional, extra features requested.
.IP "fid" 12
On success, points to the opened interface.
.IP "context" 12
Optional, user specified pointer to associate with the interface.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The function
.BR "fi_open"()
opens a fabric interface. Either the
.IR "name" " or the " info " arguments must be provided."
.br
.PP
The function
.BR "fi_close"()
closes the specified domain and releases resources allocated to it. Users must
call this for every opened domain.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns 0 on success. On error, a negative value corresponding to fabric
.I errno 
is returned. Fabric errno values are defined in 
.IR "fi_errno.h".
.SH "NOTES"
Communication resources need to be allocated within a domain.
Therefore, before any communication can take place a domain needs to be opened. 
The domain name can be obtained from the list of providers returned by
.BR fi_getinfo "." 
The flag 
.B FI_EXCL
indicates that a new domain be created, otherwise any previously open domain
belonging to the same process may be returned.  In order to share resources
allocated within a domain with other processes on the same node, the field
.B shared_fd
may be used while obtaining the
.I info
parameter from
.BR fi_getinfo "."
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fi_getinfo(3), fi_socket(3), fi_close(3), fi_bind(3), fi_sync(3), fi_control(3)
