.TH "FI_RMA" 3 "2014-01-07" "libfabric" "Libfabric Programmer's Manual" libfabric
.SH NAME
fi_rma - Remote memory access operations
.PP
fi_read / fi_readmem / fi_readv
.br
fi_readfrom / fi_readmemfrom / fi_readmsg
.RS
Initiates a read from remote memory
.RE
.PP
fi_write / fi_writemem / fi_writev
.br
fi_writeto / fi_writememto / fi_writemsg
.RS
Initiate a write to remote memory
.RE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <rdma/fi_endpoint.h>
.HP
.BI "int fi_read(fid_t " fid ", void * " buf ", size_t " len ","
.BI "uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ", void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_readmem(fid_t " fid ", void * " buf ", size_t " len ","
.BI "uint64_t " mem_desc ", uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ","
.BI "void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_readv(fid_t " fid ", const void * " iov ", size_t " count ","
.BI "uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ", void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_readfrom(fid_t " fid ", void * " buf ", size_t " len ","
.BI "const void *" src_addr ", uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ","
.BI "void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_readmemfrom(fid_t " fid ", void * " buf ", size_t " len ","
.BI "uint64_t " mem_desc ", const void *" src_addr ","
.BI "uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ", void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_readmsg(fid_t " fid ", const struct fi_msg_rma * " msg ", uint64_t " flags ");"
.PP
.HP
.BI "int fi_write(fid_t " fid ", const void * " buf ", size_t " len ","
.BI "uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ", void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_writemem(fid_t " fid ", const void * " buf ", size_t " len ","
.BI "uint64_t " mem_desc ", uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ","
.BI "void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_writev(fid_t " fid ", const void * " iov ", size_t " count ","
.BI "uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ", void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_writeto(fid_t " fid ", const void * " buf ", size_t " len ","
.BI "const void *" dst_addr ", uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ","
.BI "void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_writememto(fid_t " fid ", const void * " buf ", size_t " len ","
.BI "uint64_t " mem_desc ", const void *" dst_addr ","
.BI "uint64_t " addr ", uint64_t " key ", void * " context ");"
.HP
.BI "int fi_writemsg(fid_t " fid ", const struct fi_msg_rma * " msg ", uint64_t " flags ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "fid"
Fabric endpoint on which to initiate read or write operation. 
.IP "buf"
Local data buffer to read into (read target) or write from (write source)
.IP "len"
Length of data to read or write
.IP "iov"
Vectored data buffer.
.IP "count"
Count of vectored data entries.
.IP "addr"
Address of remote memory to access.
.IP "key"
Protection key associated with the remote memory.
.IP "mem_desc"
Memory descriptor associated with the local data buffer
.IP "dst_addr"
Destination address for connectionless write transfers
.IP "src_addr"
Source address to read from for connectionless transfers
.IP "msg"
Message descriptor for read and write operations.
.IP "flags"
Additional flags to apply for the read or write operation.
.IP "context"
User specified pointer to associate with the operation.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
RMA (remote memory access) operations are used to transfer data directly
between a local data buffer and a remote data buffer.  RMA transfers occur
on a byte level granularity, and no message boundaries are maintained.
.PP
The write functions -- fi_write, fi_writemem, fi_writev, fi_writeto,
fi_writememto, fi_writemsg -- are used to transmit data into a remote
memory buffer.  The main difference between write functions
are the number and type of parameters that they accept as input.  Otherwise,
they perform the same general function.
.PP
The read functions -- fi_read, fi_readmem, fi_readv, fi_readfrom,
fi_readmemfrom, fi_readmsg -- are used to transfer data from a remote
memory region into local data buffer(s).  Similar to the write operations,
read operations operate asynchronously.  Users should not touch the posted
data buffer(s) until the read operation has completed.
.PP
Completed RMA operations are reported to the user through one or more event
collectors associated with the endpoint.  Users provide context which are
associated with each operation, and is returned to the user
as part of the event completion.  See fi_ec for completion event details.
.PP
By default, the remote endpoint does not generate an event or notify the
user when a memory region has been accessed by an RMA read or write operation.
However, immediate data may be associated with an RMA write operation.
RMA writes with immediate data will generate a completion entry at the
remote endpoint, so that the immediate data may be delivered.
.SS "fi_write"
The call fi_write transfers the data contained in the user-specified data
buffer to a remote memory region.  The local endpoint must be connected to
a remote endpoint or destination before fi_write is called.  Unless the
endpoint has been configured differently, the data buffer passed into
fi_write must not be touched by the application
until the fi_write call completes asynchronously.
.SS "fi_writemem"
The difference between fi_writemem and fi_write is that the data buffer
passed into fi_writemem must be registered with the resource domain associated
with the endpoint.  See fi_domain and fi_mr for additional details on
registering data buffers.
.SS "fi_writev"
The fi_writev call adds support for a scatter-gather list to fi_write and/or
fi_writemem.  The fi_writev transfers the set of data buffers referenced by
the iov parameter to the remote memory region.  The format of
iov parameter is specified by the user when the endpoint is created.  See
fi_getinfo for more details on iov formats.
.SS "fi_writeto / fi_writememto"
The fi_writeto and fi_writememto functions are equivalent to fi_write and
fi_writemem, respectively, for unconnected endpoints.
.SS "fi_writemsg"
The fi_writemsg call supports data transfers over both connected and unconnected
endpoints, with the ability to control the write operation per call through the
use of flags.  The fi_writemsg function takes a struct fi_msg_rma as input.
.PP
.nf
struct fi_msg_rma {
	const void *msg_iov;   /* local scatter-gather array */
	size_t      iov_count; /* # elements in msg_iov */
	const void *addr;      /* optional address */
	const struct fi_rma_iov rma_iov; /* remote SGL */
	size_t      rma_iov_count;       /* # elements in rma_iov */
	void       *context;   /* user-defined context */
	uint64_t    data;      /* optional immediate data */
	int         flow;      /* message steering */
};
.fi
.SS "fi_read"
The fi_read call requests that the remote endpoint transfer data from the
remote memory region into the local data buffer.  The local endpoint must
be connected to a remote endpoint or destination before fi_read is called.
.SS "fi_readmem"
The fi_readmem is similar to fi_read, but requires that the local buffer be
registered with the resource domain associated with the endpoint.  The fi_readv
allows the user to post a scatter-gather list of buffers to receive the
remotely read data.
.SS "fi_readfrom / fi_readmemfrom"
The fi_readfrom and fi_readmemfrom calls are equivalent to fi_read and
fi_readfrom, respectively, for unconnected endpoints.
.SS "fi_readmsg"
The fi_readmsg call supports data transfers over both connected and unconnected
endpoints, with the ability to control the read operation per call through the
use of flags.  The fi_readmsg function takes a struct fi_msg_rma as input.
.SH "FLAGS"
The fi_readmsg and fi_writemsg calls allow the user to specify flags
which can change the default data transfer operation.
Flags specified with fi_readmsg / fi_writemsg override most flags
previously configured with the endpoint, except where noted (see fi_control).
The following list of flags are usable with fi_readmsg and/or fi_writemsg.
.IP "FI_CANCEL"
Indicates that the user wants the ability to cancel the operation if it does
not complete first.  When set, the user must pass in struct fi_context as their
per operation context (see discussion below).
.IP "FI_IMM"
Applies to fi_writemsg.  Indicates that immediate data is available and should
be sent as part of the request.
.IP "FI_NOCOMP"
Indicates that no completion should be generated for the specified operation.
When set the user must determine when a request has completed indirectly,
usually based on the completion of a subsequent operation.  Use of this
flag may improve performance by allowing the provider to avoid writing
a completion entry.
.IP "FI_MORE"
Indicates that the user has additional requests that will immediately be
posted after the current call returns.  Use of this flag may improve
performance by enabling the provider to optimize its access to the fabric
hardware.
.IP "FI_SIGNAL"
Indicates that a completion event should be generated for the given operation.
.IP "FI_BUFFERED_SEND"
Applies to fi_writemsg.  Indicates that the outbound data buffer should be
returned to user immediately after the write call returns, even if the operation
is handled asynchronously.  This may require that the underlying provider
implementation copy the data into a local buffer and transfer out of that
buffer.
.IP "FI_ACK"
Applies to fi_writemsg.  Indicates that a completion should not be generated
until the operation has been explicitly acknowledged by the remote side.
.SH "FI_CONTEXT"
If an RMA operation has been called has the flag FI_CANCEL set,
then the user context parameter is interpreted as struct fi_context.
For performance reasons, this structure must be allocated by the user,
but may be used by the fabric provider to track the operation.  Typically,
users embed struct fi_context within their own context structure.
The struct fi_context must remain valid until the corresponding operation
completes or is successfully canceled.  Users should not update or interpret
the fields in this structure.  The structure is specified in rdma/fabric.h.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns 0 on success. On error, a negative value corresponding to fabric
errno is returned. Fabric errno values are defined in 
.IR "rdma/fi_errno.h".
.SH "ERRORS"
.IP "Enter FI_ERRNO values here"
write me
.SH "NOTES"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fi_getinfo(3), fi_endpoint(3), fi_domain(3), fi_control(3), fi_ec(3)
