.TH "fi_rxm" "7" "2018\-02\-19" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
fi_rxm \- The RxM (RDM over MSG) Utility Provider
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
The RxM provider (ofi_rxm) is an utility provider that supports RDM
endpoint emulated over MSG endpoint of a core provider.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.PP
RxM provider requires the core provider to support the following
features:
.IP \[bu] 2
MSG endpoints (FI_EP_MSG)
.IP \[bu] 2
RMA read/write (FI_RMA)
.IP \[bu] 2
FI_OPT_CM_DATA_SIZE of at least 24 bytes
.SH SUPPORTED FEATURES
.PP
The RxM provider currently supports \f[I]FI_MSG\f[], \f[I]FI_TAGGED\f[]
and \f[I]FI_RMA\f[] capabilities.
.PP
\f[I]Endpoint types\f[] : The provider supports only \f[I]FI_EP_RDM\f[].
.PP
\f[I]Endpoint capabilities\f[] : The following data transfer interface
is supported: \f[I]FI_MSG\f[], \f[I]FI_TAGGED\f[], \f[I]FI_RMA\f[].
.PP
\f[I]Progress\f[] : The RxM provider supports \f[I]FI_PROGRESS_AUTO\f[].
.PP
\f[I]Addressing Formats\f[] : FI_SOCKADDR, FI_SOCKADDR_IN
.PP
\f[I]Memory Region\f[] : FI_MR_VIRT_ADDR, FI_MR_ALLOCATED,
FI_MR_PROV_KEY MR mode bits would be required from the app in case the
core provider requires it.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.PP
When using RxM provider, some limitations from the underlying MSG
provider could also show up.
Please refer to the corresponding MSG provider man pages to find about
those limitations.
.SS Unsupported features
.PP
RxM provider does not support the following features:
.IP \[bu] 2
op_flags: FI_FENCE.
.IP \[bu] 2
FI_ATOMIC
.IP \[bu] 2
Scalable endpoints
.IP \[bu] 2
Shared contexts
.IP \[bu] 2
FABRIC_DIRECT
.IP \[bu] 2
FI_MR_SCALABLE
.IP \[bu] 2
Authorization keys
.IP \[bu] 2
Application error data buffers
.IP \[bu] 2
Multicast
.IP \[bu] 2
FI_ADDR_STR, FI_SYNC_ERR
.IP \[bu] 2
Reporting unknown source addr data as part of completions
.IP \[bu] 2
Triggered operations
.SS Auto progress
.PP
When sending large messages, an app doing an sread or waiting on the CQ
file descriptor may not get a completion when reading the CQ after being
woken up from the wait.
The app has to do sread or wait on the file descriptor again.
.SH RUNTIME PARAMETERS
.PP
The ofi_rxm provider checks for the following environment variables.
.PP
\f[I]FI_OFI_RXM_BUFFER_SIZE\f[] : Defines the transmit buffer size /
inject size.
Messages of size less than this would be transmitted via an eager
protocol and those above would be transmitted via a rendezvous protocol.
Transmit data would be copied up to this size (default: ~16k).
.PP
\f[I]FI_OFI_RXM_COMP_PER_PROGRESS\f[] : Defines the maximum number of
MSG provider CQ entries (default: 1) that would be read per progress
(RxM CQ read).
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fabric\f[](7), \f[C]fi_provider\f[](7), \f[C]fi_getinfo\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
