.TH "fi_rxd" "7" "2018\-06\-08" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
fi_rxd \- The RxD (RDM over DGRAM) Utility Provider
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
The RxD provider is a utility provider that supports RDM endpoints
emulated over a base DGRAM provider.
.SH SUPPORTED FEATURES
.PP
The RxD provider currently supports \f[I]FI_MSG\f[] capabilities.
.PP
\f[I]Endpoint types\f[] : The provider supports only endpoint type
\f[I]FI_EP_RDM\f[].
.PP
\f[I]Endpoint capabilities\f[] : The following data transfer interface
is supported: \f[I]fi_msg\f[].
.PP
\f[I]Modes\f[] : The provider does not require the use of any mode bits
but supports core DGRAM providers that require FI_CONTEXT and
FI_MSG_PREFIX.
.PP
\f[I]Progress\f[] : The RxD provider only supports
\f[I]FI_PROGRESS_MANUAL\f[].
.SH LIMITATIONS
.PP
The RxD provider has hard\-coded maximums for supported queue sizes and
data transfers.
Some of these limits are set based on the selected base DGRAM provider.
.PP
No support for multi\-recv.
.PP
No support for counters.
.PP
The RxD provider is still under development and is not extensively
tested.
.SH RUNTIME PARAMETERS
.PP
The \f[I]rxd\f[] provider checks for the following environment
variables:
.PP
\f[I]FI_OFI_RXD_SPIN_COUNT\f[] : Number of times to read the core
provider\[aq]s CQ for a segment completion before trying to progress
sends.
Default is 1000.
.PP
\f[I]FI_OFI_RXD_OOO_RDM\f[] : Toggles out\-of\-order reliability mode.
This indicates that the rxd provider can assume the core provider will
not drop any packets, but might deliver packets out of order.
As a result, resending is turned off and the receiver will reassemble
all received packets.
This mode is turned off by default.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fabric\f[](7), \f[C]fi_provider\f[](7), \f[C]fi_getinfo\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
