.TH "fi_shm" "7" "2017\-10\-19" "Libfabric Programmer\[aq]s Manual" "\@VERSION\@"
.SH NAME
.PP
The SHM Fabric Provider
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
The SHM provider is a complete provider that can be used on Linux
systems supporting shared memory and process_vm_readv/process_vm_writev
calls.
The provider is intended to provide high\-performance communication
between processes on the same system.
.SH SUPPORTED FEATURES
.PP
This release contains an initial implementation of the SHM provider.
It supports a minimal set of features useful for sending and receiving
datagram messages over an unreliable endpoint.
.PP
\f[I]Endpoint types\f[] : The provider supports only endpoint type
\f[I]FI_EP_DGRAM\f[].
.PP
\f[I]Endpoint capabilities\f[] : The following data transfer interface
is supported: \f[I]fi_msg\f[].
.PP
\f[I]Modes\f[] : The provider does not require the use of any mode bits.
.PP
\f[I]Progress\f[] : The UDP provider supports
\f[I]FI_PROGRESS_MANUAL\f[].
Receive side data buffers are not modified outside of completion
processing routines, and transmit operations require the receiver to
process requests before being completed.
.SH LIMITATIONS
.PP
The SHM provider has hard\-coded maximums for supported queue sizes and
data transfers.
These values are reflected in the related fabric attribute structures
.PP
EPs must be bound to both RX and TX CQs.
.PP
No support for selective completions or multi\-recv.
.PP
No support for counters.
.SH RUNTIME PARAMETERS
.PP
No runtime parameters are currently defined.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[C]fabric\f[](7), \f[C]fi_provider\f[](7), \f[C]fi_getinfo\f[](3)
.SH AUTHORS
OpenFabrics.
